Music Server Notes

The following settings are assumed for the 'Music' app

 o Keep Music Media folder organised.
 o Copy files to Music Media folder when adding to library
 o Import settings  AAC encoder 256kbps stereo

Music is kept on the 'Media' removable disc and a preflight task in Carbon Copy Cloner makes a 
transcoding or copy of any new or updated files so that all files are in mp3 format.  The cloner
then copies any updates to the Music server.

Music can be accessed and played (via dlna) on a Smart TV  or via BubbleUPNP on Android

Playlists can be constructed from the server music collection using 
 Mac OS Music App - they are available to any renderer 
 BubbleUPNP - they can be downloaded to the Phone and moved to a USB flash drive using X-plore
 file manager.  The USB drive/download can be played on various devices (notably Ruark)
 without any of the complexity and fragility of UPNP wifi connectivity (evident on Pure radio).  
 
There are complications (and weaknesses) in many places in the system, some of which can be weeded out (see below) but there are oothers which are unavoidable. Namely:

 o The server is slow and sometimes not powerful enough to deal with concurrent activity such as a backup.  This results in timeout of the requests to retrieve media and in the
   case of the Pure One Flow...
 o The Pure One Flow does not deal tidily with errors.  In the case of repeated failures to load music it requires a power-off to reset the server connection (which seemingly needs to 
   be long-lived)
   
  o The Pure One Flow seemingly has constraints on the length of urls which it can use to retreive media. Examples can be found in the original titles
   of tracks in the Goldberg Variations.
   Changing to short titles (and therefore file names and therefore short urls) makes the loading work.
   
   There are failures for all tracks in the Bach violin Sonatas and Partitas album which mean the "loading" message on track selection is never resolved.
   Deleting the metadata with https://products.groupdocs.app/metadata/clean/mp3 can overcome this loading problem, so a way of cleaning the metadata is seemingly what's needed.
   
   


THINGS TO DO

o Automate the export of all playlists from the Music app by calling from python/transcoding.py
  to applescript for the operation (before doing the translation to relative file paths etc)

o DONE Some files in the Music collection are on the Internal drive rather than the Media external drive.  What does the menu item "File>Library>Organise Library"  do?  ""*Test out* Importing the Macintosh HD/timbanks/Music collection to detect and deleted files from that location.
  A script may be a better way to find the extent of the problem.
  
  This is done by comparing the internal drive collection with the Media external drive via the analysis.py script.
  Repairs werere done manually.
  
   
o Compare the iTunes Music-retired with Music Library for missing/duplicate tracks and Folder.jpg
  For example:
   [All checked from Ab Kloster -> Colin Davis and also multi-disk albums (Piccini operas, Christmas Oratorio)  ]
   >********Except that Tosca has two sets of m4a files with one set suffixed "1" in the filename. These duplications are not
        identified by File>Library>Show Duplicate Items
       Maybe they Can be found by the 'find' command in the terminal window using pattern matching.
       OR BETTER - by a new script to facilitate repetition of the scan.
       
       DONE The analysis.py script looks for filenames ending " 1" and reports them.  The removal can be done by hand by removing
            the whole album and then re-adding it.
       
   >******* Note that the original files imported from CDs can be found on the mybooklive server at /shares/Public/Shared Music/Hidden-m4a/iTunes/Media  (or something like that)
  Done: This is done by  copying the Hidden-m4a archive to the Media volume and running findForgotten.py
  
o DONE Check that files removed from the Music app are removed from the server
  This may require a changed to the "Safety net" setting in CCC.


o DONE Clean up the various copies of the library  - on Mac Hard disk, Media disk and on the server at /Public/Shared Music
  There are some remains in the Public/Shared Music/_CCCSafetyNet files which will eventually be removed automatically
  There is also a Hidden-ma4 folder which has proved useful in the past. So keeping it until the backup system is bedded in.
  
o  Curiously, the Trevor Pinnock CD of Bach does not show the album artwork, even though it is set in the metadata.
   SOLVED. This is a feature of the way the Music App manages Album art (and avoids putting artwork in each track).  The solution
        is to explicity add new artwork to
   ALSO - the 'Automatically update artwork' setting has been turned on. The effect is unknown.


---------------- 2 APRIL 2025
o DONE Figure out what happened in removed.log
  Many files were removed because they werer copies of mp3 files in the Master list;  the processing script failed to identify
  this. Repsairs werer paossible because a safety net file existed with the deleted files.
      
o Remove empty directories on the transcoding target file system
  Partly Done - the directories are reported correctly but actual removal is not implemented - monitoring....

o DONE There are 20 files which show up inFinder as having zero bytes in spite of being playable.   But they cannot be backed up by CCC.
    This was cured by remounting the network drive and re-running the backup.



o It would be nice also to be able to use playlists created on the Music App.   This would mean manually exporting and copying
  them to the MusicMP3 folder and editing them to use relative paths. See item 2 of Christmas Music for example??
  Copying of  the .m3u files is implemented but needs to be monitored for usefulness.

o DONE A policy for Folder.jpg pictures is needed - they are a burden to manage and are they themselves needed? Each track in a
  folder has the same image as the Folder.jpg - but what heppens at the renderer/control point?  (Eg BubbleUPNP)
  
  The pictures are saved in an existing pics.tar file and remain in the master Music Library directory.  Any new pictures
  created in the Music Library will be propagated to the MusicMP3 folder benignly and experimentally.
